---
title: Argyro Kavvada, PhD
company: NASA
role: Program Manager for Earth Sciences Division's Sustainable Development Goals
avatar: ./media/argyro-kavvada.jpg
---
## About

Dr. Argyro Kavvada serves as program manager of NASA’s Earth Sciences Division’s Sustainable Development Goals initiative to extend uses of Earth science and applications in support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. She is the founding executive director for the international Earth Observations for Sustainable Development Goals initiative. Related intergovernmental tasks include delegation to the United Nations, the international Group on Earth Observations, the U.S. Group on Earth Observations, and the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites. In 2022, Argyro led the development of a new book published in the American Geopshysical Union’s Geophysical Monograph Series titled Earth Observation Applications and Global Policy Frameworks (link). Argyro also serves as the technical project manager for Booz Allen Hamilton's contract in NASA’s Earth Science Division Applied Sciences Program, leading staff development and oversight, contract financials, schedules, and product delivery. She holds a PhD and a MS degree in Atmospheric and Oceanic Science from the University of Maryland, a MS degree in Applied Mathematics and Statistics from Georgetown University, and a BS degree in Physics from the Johns Hopkins University. She is also a Change Management Advanced Practitioner. Argyro is a vocal advocate for a diverse STEM workforce and serves as mentor in professional networks that promote diversity and inclusiveness within the science community. In 2020, Argyro was awarded the NASA Headquarters Honors Award for Excellence in Innovation.