---
title: Elodie Macorps, PhD
company: NASA Goddard Space Flight Center
role: NASA Postdoctoral Fellow
avatar: ./media/elodie-macorps.jpg
---
## About

Dr. Elodie Macorps is a NASA Postdoctoral Fellow at [NASA Goddard Space Flight Center](https://www.nasa.gov/goddard) where she studies the detection of disasters impacted areas and topographic changes with remote sensing. Her research focuses on data processing of Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) and optical satellite imagery to map areas impacted by volcanic eruptions, wildfires, and floods, as well as improving digital elevation models for disasters prone areas. She enjoys developing open-source Python notebooks with GIS tools to improve the automation of surface change detection algorithms. In 2019, Elodie joined the NASA Disasters Program, where she has been using her remote sensing and volcanology expertise to support disasters coordinator efforts. Elodie is passionate about applied remote sensing research to better support disasters prone communities. 

Elodie graduated with a Ph.D. in Volcanology and Remote Sensing from the University of South Florida (Tampa, FL) in 2021. Her dissertation focused on the study of volcanic flows from volcanoes in Central and South America using a combination of field work and remote sensing data for the purpose of hazard assessment and crisis management. Elodie was the recipient of the NASA Earth and Space Science Fellowship (NESSF, now known as FINESST), which allowed her to join the Biospheric Sciences Lab. at NASA Goddard as a Student Researcher Collaborator. In 2015, Elodie completed her M.Sc. in Volcanology and Geotechniques with courses and research time split between the University of Buffalo (NY) and Université Blaise Pascal de Clermont-Ferrand (France). Her master’s thesis was a study of phreatomagmatic eruptions using field studies of maar volcanoes and both laboratory- and large-scale analogue experiments (i.e. outdoor, meter-scale replicas of magma-water explosions). Elodie completed her Bachelor in Geology and Geophysics at Université de Nantes in France.