---
title: Matthew D. Steinhelfer
company: Department of State Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations
role: Deputy Assistant Secretary
avatar: ./media/matthew-steinhelfer.jpg
---
## About

Matthew D. Steinhelfer is the [Department of State Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations](https://www.state.gov/bureaus-offices/under-secretary-for-civilian-security-democracy-and-human-rights/bureau-of-conflict-and-stabilization-operations/) (CSO) Deputy Assistant Secretary. A member of the Senior Executive Service, Matthew leads the Bureau’s efforts to anticipate, prevent, and respond to conflict and instability in the Western Hemisphere, Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa. He also oversees CSO’s Office of Advanced Analytics. Matthew joined CSO from the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs (NEA). In NEA, he led a team of democracy, governance, economic, and security sector subject matter experts responsible for thematic analysis and coordination of over $8.3 billion in annual U.S. foreign assistance. Matthew’s prior assignments include: Chief of Staff to the U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan; Political Military Affairs Unit Chief at U.S. Embassy Kabul; International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Central America Coordinator; and Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor Program Officer for Southeast and East Asia, and Iraq. Matthew is the recipient of several State Department Superior and Meritorious Honor awards. He holds a B.A. in International Affairs from The George Washington University and a M.S. in Peace Operations from George Mason University. He speaks German and Afghan Dari.